We’ll start off by taking a look at one of the most fundamental ideas in Bitcoin:
identity.
We saw earlier that banks need to keep track of the accounts and identities of their customers.
But how do we do this in Bitcoin, without a bank or central entity to keep track of
who’s who and who owns what?

In currencies, we need to ensure that all users can authenticate themselves through
some identification method, and that all identification methods have integrity.
Authentication is required to ensure that no one else acts on your behalf.
Claiming, receiving, and spending money on your behalf are things that only you should
be able to do.
Like a bank, by associating yourself with your funds through authentication, you are
able to receive money from others and spend your own money.
Only you have access to your own money, since others are not authenticated to handle your
money.
Without an authentication process, anyone could spend my money, which is obviously undesirable.
Additionally, authentication can also be used to enforce blaming.
If someone tries to do something incorrect within the network, such as spend someone
else’s funds, you want to be able to call them out with proof.
For example, if someone tries to withdraw your funds from a bank, you would want a record
of this, including the identity of who was trying to take your funds, to get rid of malicious
activity in the future by banning or refusing to interact with those people.
Integrity, the other half of identity, means that all our authentication methods cannot
be replicated by anyone else.
We can understand integrity by the process of signing a check: once you sign a check
or transaction, no one should be able to intercept and/or manipulate it.
The check has been signed by you, and since no one can replicate your signature, it should
be tamper evident.
Integrity ensures that no one but you, the signer, can use your signature.
Imagine the following scenario in Bitcoin: If I wanted to send Alice 10 bitcoins, she
shouldn’t be able to add another zero and make me send her 100 bitcoins.
She also shouldn’t be able to copy or replicate my signature elsewhere.
Only by preventing all these things can we trust the integrity of Bitcoin identities.
Identity is a simple concept appearing everywhere in daily life.
For example, houses have both addresses and mailbox keys.
When you ask people to send you mail, you give away your address, so they know where
to send the package to.
Meanwhile, you alone control the mailbox key.
Similarly, emails have aliases and passwords.
People who want to send you email have access to your email address or alias, while you
alone have access to the password to your email account, so only you can read these
emails.
Bitcoin, following this pattern, has both public keys and private keys.
The items in orange on the left hand side -- mailbox addresses, email aliases, and public
keys -- represent one’s public identity.
They are what you give out to the public so that they know how to communicate with you,
so that they know how to recognize and identify you.
Meanwhile, the items on the right hand side in red -- mailbox keys, email passwords, and
private keys -- are secret keys that you alone should own.
With these personal keys, you access the orange items on the left.
It gives you control and ownership.
It gives you your identity.
